#### POV: 
  - *tense*: past
  - *gender*:
  - *species*:
  - *cues*: funny word split (`to-day`)
#### Subjects:
  - *cues*: Henry
#### Location:
  - *cues*: London?
#### Time:
  - *cues*:
#### Events:
  - *cues*:
#### Sequence:
  - *precedes*: 
  - *follows*:
**Notes**:


**Annotated text**:
`I plunged for the last time. The few remaining figures and letters swam as they came up to me. Then I took them in. There were no more. I glanced about me. I felt I was getting my money’s worth. London is like that ; it accepts the wanderer home with a sort of warm indifference. The woman’s beauty was, I surmised, profound ; her creamy dress, contrasting with her vivid colouring, showed to me, though more as white against a gay brick sepulchre than snow against roses. Yes it was a dreadful beauty, as far as I could see, and I recalled the stark phrases : Which swept an hundred thousand souls away ; yet I alive. But he was not ; the writer had strangely died to-day. And again they continued this wretched course three or four days : but they were every one of them carried into the great pit before it was quite filled up. Where was Henry? Ah, he was standing by her, close enough to touch the small buoyant face that topped her pillared neck most like a bell-flower on its bed. Would he appreciate?`

Original page:
[pag2.pdf](https://github.com/vigji/cainjb/blob/main/source_material/pages/page_2.pdf)


**Original text**:
```
I plunged for the last time. The few remaining
figures and letters swam as they came up to me.
Then I took them in. There were no more. I
glanced about me. I felt I was getting my
money’s worth. London is like that ; it accepts
the wanderer home with a sort of warm
indifference. The woman’s beauty was, I
surmised, profound ; her creamy dress,
contrasting with her vivid colouring, showed to
me, though more as white against a gay brick
sepulchre than snow against roses. Yes it was a
dreadful beauty, as far as I could see, and I
recalled the stark phrases : Which swept an
hundred thousand souls away ; yet I alive. But
he was not ; the writer had strangely died
to-day. And again they continued this wretched
course three or four days : but they were every
one of them carried into the great pit before it
was quite filled up. Where was Henry? Ah, he
was standing by her, close enough to touch the
small buoyant face that topped her pillared
neck most like a bell-flower on its bed. Would
he appreciate?
```

**Italian text**:
Lo immersi per l'ultima volta. Le poche cifre e lettere rimaste nuotavano risalendo verso di me. Poi le affer-rai. Non ce n'erano più. Mi guardai intorno. Avevo la sensazione di spendere bene i miei soldi. Londra è così; accoglie il vagabondo con una sorta di calda indifferenza. Immaginai che la donna fosse di una bellezza profonda; me lo diceva l'abito color crema, in contrasto con i suoi colori vivaci, sebbene quella tonalità ricordasse più la calce di un vistoso sepolcro di mattoni che il candore della neve da cui spuntano le rose. Sì, era una bellezza terribile, a quanto potevo vedere, e rammentai le frasi crude : spazzò via centomila anime, eppure io sono ancora qui. Ma lui non c'era più; strano, ma lo scrittore era morto oggi. E per tre o quattro giorni persistettero nel loro orribile comportamento : furono condotti, uno dopo l'altro, alla grande fossa prima che fosse completamente ri-empita. Dov'era Henry? Ah, eccolo in piedi accanto a lei, abbastanza vicino da toccare quel piccolo viso vivace che sormontava il collo a colonna come una campanula nella sua aiuola. Lui l'avrebbe apprezzato?
