#### POV: 
  - *tense*:
  - *gender*:
  - *species*:
  - *cues*:
#### Subjects:
  - *cues*:
#### Location:
  - *cues*:
#### Time:
  - *cues*:
#### Events:
  - *cues*:
#### Sequence:
  - *precedes*: 
  - *follows*:
**Notes**:


**Annotated text**:
```
The others did not seem similarly impressed. 
Phrases of this and that came to half my ear, 
duet by rill and corncrake. Rill vaunted the 
pleasure of speeding, and corncrake gave 
warnings like an over-driven oak about to fall. I 
remembered how I had listened for the same 
sound on that awful night in Paris, when I did 
not know what I know now. And again, in this 
very place for another reason, Henry would 
remember. To lose even two like these two, 
swallowed by the night, was apt to break a 
balance in one, to suggest that it was time to 
square accounts. Caseus, ah! And nothing lean 
or hungry here at all. A friend in the nick of 
time. I would have no more. My hand dropped 
to my hip pocket. I had to reckon with Henry. 
Yet could I? This nomenclature business had 
often bothered me. Sometimes I felt sudden 
enough, as if my head would burst  sometimes 
but triturative. Was I a bomb, or only slow and 
godly and exceeding small? 
```

Original page:
[page_31.pdf](https://github.com/vigji/cainjb/blob/main/source_material/pages/page_31.pdf)

**Original text**:
```
The others did not seem similarly impressed. 
Phrases of this and that came to half my ear, 
duet by rill and corncrake. Rill vaunted the 
pleasure of speeding, and corncrake gave 
warnings like an over-driven oak about to fall. I 
remembered how I had listened for the same 
sound on that awful night in Paris, when I did 
not know what I know now. And again, in this 
very place for another reason, Henry would 
remember. To lose even two like these two, 
swallowed by the night, was apt to break a 
balance in one, to suggest that it was time to 
square accounts. Caseus, ah! And nothing lean 
or hungry here at all. A friend in the nick of 
time. I would have no more. My hand dropped 
to my hip pocket. I had to reckon with Henry. 
Yet could I? This nomenclature business had 
often bothered me. Sometimes I felt sudden 
enough, as if my head would burst  sometimes 
but triturative. Was I a bomb, or only slow and 
godly and exceeding small? 
```

```
```

**Italian text**:
```
```

